# ebpf_streamer

## Overview

ebpf_streamer is a userspace daemon that provides a connector between eBPF
based sources of event data and [LDMS](https://github.com/ovis-hpc/ldms). It
aims to lower the barrier to writing eBPF programs for monitoring and data
collection by factoring out all the infrastructure needed for relaying the
collected data to LDMS. ebpf_streamer achieves this by creating a pinned
eBPF ring buffer map in a well known location
`/sys/fs/bpf/LDMS_SHARED_STREAM`. All the eBPF programs running on the node
need only submit messages to this shared map in the efficient binary
[CBOR](https://cbor.io/) format. The ebpf_streamer daemon reads messages off
of the ring buffer map, expands them into JSON, appends some metadata and
submits them to the chosen stream of an LDMS daemon at a configurable
location.

## eBPF producer example

A message generated by any eBPF program that formats messages as CBOR with the
required fields (we can change this) and pushes it to the ring buffer, will be
accepted by the daemon and relayed to LDMS. An example of such a producer that
is written using the Aya framework which is the same framework that the daemon
uses is [stuckclsync](https://gitlab.nersc.gov/ebasheer/stuck-clsync). It
relies on the `minicbor` crate to generate CBOR messages in the limited eBPF
runtime environment.

## Prerequisites

you will need the Rust stable and nightly toolchains installed on your
system. Stable for the userspace part, and nightly that can compile for the
eBPF target.


1. stable rust toolchains: `rustup toolchain install stable`
1. nightly rust toolchains: `rustup toolchain install nightly --component rust-src`


bpf-linker is needed to generate a single eBPF object file from multiple
crates.


1. bpf-linker: `cargo install bpf-linker` (`--no-default-features` on macOS)

## Build

ebpf_streamer calls into LDMS libraries using rust FFI. The LDMS libraries
are therefore required to be linked into the resulting binary. This is done
by passing the `-L` option to the rust compiler.

To build ebpf_streamer, run the following in the top-level directory, with
the path to the LDMS libraries.

```
RUSTFLAGS='-L /opt/ovis-ldms/lib' cargo build --release
```

## Creating RPMs

### Install cargo helper

The cargo manifest file at `<top-level>/ebpf_streamer/Cargo.toml` contains
directives for generating an RPM package from the release binaries and
configuration files. You'll need to install the following cargo helper
program first.

```
cargo install cargo-generate-rpm
```

### Generate RPM

Generated RPM(s) are placed in the directory `<top-level>/target/generate-rpm/` and generated by running the following in the top-level directory.


```
cargo generate-rpm -p ebpf_streamer
```

## Configuring the daemon

The configuration options that are passed to the daemon during startup by
the systemd service are in `/etc/sysconfig/ebpf_streamer`. Brief
descriptions of the option can be printed by running the daemon command.

```
muller:login05:~ # LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/ovis-ldms/lib /usr/sbin/ebpf_streamer --help
Daemon that relays eBPF generated messages to LDMS

Usage: ebpf_streamer [OPTIONS]

Options:
      --stream <STREAM>              Name of LDMS stream to which messages are published [default: nersc]
      --msglimit <MSGPERPERIOD>      Average message rate limit for an individual producer in messages/interval (see --interval) [default: 2]
      --interval <INTERVAL>          Length of time interval over which message limits are calculated. In seconds [default: 1]
      --host <HOST>                  Hostname or IP address of LDMS daemon [default: localhost]
      --port <PORT>                  TCP Port of LDMS daemon [default: 60003]
      --authentication <none|munge>  Authentication method when connecting to LDMS daemon [default: none]
      --hostname <HOSTNAME>          Set "hostname" field to this value in published messages [default: localhost]
      --logfile <LOGFILE>            File to which logs are written in addition to the console [default: /var/log/ebpf_streamer.log]
  -h, --help                         Print help
  -V, --version                      Print version
```

## Starting the service

The ebpf_streamer RPM includes a systemd service unit file.

```
systemctl start nersc-ebpf-streamer.service
```

## License

With the exception of eBPF code, ebpf_streamer is distributed under the terms
of either the [MIT license] or the [Apache License] (version 2.0), at your
option.

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in this crate by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall
be dual licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.

### eBPF

All eBPF code is distributed under either the terms of the
[GNU General Public License, Version 2] or the [MIT license], at your
option.

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in this project by you, as defined in the GPL-2 license, shall be
dual licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.

[Apache license]: LICENSE-APACHE
[MIT license]: LICENSE-MIT
[GNU General Public License, Version 2]: LICENSE-GPL2
